migrating(eks): add blog post of migrating node groups with zero downtime (#1328)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/day-2-kubernetes-migrating-eks-nodegroups-with-zero-downtime/index.md

infrastructure and Kubernetes through code, [click here to get started today]({{< ref "/docs/quickstart" >}}). Pulumi is open source and free to
use.

As always, you can check out our code on
[GitHub](https://github.com/pulumi), follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/pulumicorp), subscribe to our [YouTube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC2Dhyn4Ev52YSbcpfnfP0Mw), or
join our [Community Slack](https://slack.pulumi.io/) channel if you have
any questions, need support, or just want to say hello.

If you'd like to chat with our team, or get hands-on assistance with
migrating your existing configuration code (including ksonnet programs)
to Pulumi, please don't hesitate to [drop us a line]({{< ref "/contact" >}}).

[eks-amis]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eks-optimized-ami.html
[ingress-nginx]: https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx
[echoserver]: https://github.com/kubernetes-retired/contrib/blob/master/ingress/echoheaders/echo-app.yaml
[pod-lifecycle]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod/#termination-of-pods
[eks-nodegroup-tutorial]: ({{< relref "/docs/reference/tutorials/kubernetes/tutorial-eks" >}})

> [crosswalk-aws]: ({{< relref "/docs/reference/crosswalk/aws" >}}).

Author: Making a note to fix `relref` hugo URL once the tutorial is live

---

> title: "Day 2 Kubernetes - Migrating EKS Node Groups with Zero Downtime"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Day 2 Kubernetes: Migrating EKS Node Groups with Zero Downtime"
```

authors: ["mike-metral"]
tags: ["Kubernetes","EKS", "Migrations", "Node Groups"]
date: "2019-07-18"

meta_image: "eks-migrate-nodegroups.svg"
---

> Managed Kubernetes clusters greatly reduce the overhead required in

Reviewer: This somehow reads a little incomplete. Do you mean "administering Kubernetes deployments"?

Author: I was referring to Managed Kubernetes offerings like EKS. I've changed clusters -> offerings to make this more straight-forward.

administering Kubernetes. However, the cluster is only one of the
components under management, as app lifecycles are self-driven tasks
that vary by workloads.

> In Kubernetes, node groups are a useful mechanism of creating pools of resources that can enforce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Kubernetes, node groups are a useful mechanism for creating pools of resources that can enforce
```

scheduling requirements. They also provide a utility for shifting
workloads around during cluster management and updates.

In this post, we'll see how to use Pulumi for Day 2 Kubernetes administration.

> We'll spin up a new EKS cluster with two node groups, and a given workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll spin up a new EKS cluster with two node groups and a given workload.
```

> Then we'll add an additional, updated node group, and migrate the workload

Reviewer: I'd rephrase "add an additional" to "add one more" but I'm not sure what you mean by "updated". Will "add one more updated node group" work as a substitution here?

Author: Rephrased to: "Then we'll add one more node group with updated configuration..."

over to it with zero downtime using code and `kubectl`.

<!--more-->

[View the full tutorial and code.][eks-nodegroup-tutorial]

<p align="center"><img src="eks-migrate-nodegroups.svg" width="650"/></p>

> ## Create an EKS Cluster & Deploy Workload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create an EKS cluster and deploy the workload
```

> The inital update we'll perform will configure and launch an EKS cluster using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our initial update, we will configure and launch an EKS cluster using
```

> `v1.13` of Kubernetes, along with the cluster's infrastructure dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`v1.13` of Kubernetes, with the cluster's infrastructure dependencies 
```

> (VPC and IAM) using [Crosswalk for AWS][crosswalk-aws]. We'll also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(such as VPC and IAM) defined using [Crosswalk for AWS][crosswalk-aws]. We'll also
```

create and attach the following node groups to the cluster:

> * A standard `t2.medium` worker node group using the recent `v1.13.7` worker [AMI][eks-amis]. For use by general purpose workloads such as the [`EchoServer`][echoserver], a simple app that echo's client request headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A standard `t2.medium` worker node group using the recent `v1.13.7` worker [AMI][eks-amis], for general purpose workloads such as the [`EchoServer`][echoserver] &mdash; a simple app that echo's client request headers.
```

> * A 2xlarge `t3.2xlarge` worker node group using an older `v1.12.7` worker [AMI][eks-amis]. For use use by larger, intensive workloads such as the [NGINX Ingress Controller][ingress-nginx].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A 2xlarge `t3.2xlarge` worker node group using an older `v1.12.7` worker [AMI][eks-amis], for use by larger, intensive workloads such as the [NGINX Ingress Controller][ingress-nginx].
```

With the cluster successfully created and the node groups available, Pulumi

> will deploy the workload: the [`EchoServer`][echoserver], and the [NGINX Ingress Controller][ingress-nginx] that will manage it's ingress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will deploy the workload: the [`EchoServer`][echoserver], and the [NGINX Ingress Controller][ingress-nginx] that will manage its ingress.
```

The `echoserver` will land on the Standard node group, and NGINX is set
to specifically target the `2xlarge` node group.

Once the workload is deployed, we can validate it is up and running by accessing
the `echoserver` behind the NGINX endpoint using `curl`:

<img style="max-width:none; height: 350px; width: 850px;" src="k8s-cluster-workload.gif"/>

> **Note**: You can open the <a href="./k8s-cluster-workload.gif" target="_blank">GIF</a> for a maximized view.

## The Great Migration

> After initial deployment, we decide to update the node group used by NGINX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After our initial deployment, let's say we decide to update the node group used by NGINX.
```

> We'll move NGINX from the `2xlarge` node group over to a new, `4xlarge` worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, we'll move NGINX from the `2xlarge` node group over to a new, `4xlarge` worker
```

> node group that differs in: an updated AMI, instance type, and desired instance count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node group with an updated AMI, a different instance type, and a different desired instance count.
```

As we migrate NGINX over to the `4xlarge` and decommission the `2xlarge` node
group in the next steps, we'll also actively load test the endpoint of the

> `echoserver` to ensure that we are not losing requests through out the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`echoserver` to ensure that we are not losing requests throughout the migration.
```

> ### Step 1: Create the new `4xlarge` Node Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Create the new `4xlarge` node group.
```

Create the new, `4xlarge` node group by defining it and running an update.

<p align="center"><img src="ng-4xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

> ### Step 2: Migrate NGINX to the `4xlarge` Node Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Migrate NGINX to the `4xlarge` node group.
```

With the `4xlarge` node group created, we'll migrate the NGINX service away
from the `2xlarge` node group over to the `4xlarge` node group by changing
its node selector scheduling terms.

This change updates the NGINX Deployment spec to require the use of
`c5.4xlarge` nodes during scheduling, and forces a rolling update over to the
`4xlarge` node group.

NGINX is able to successfully migrate across node groups because it is

> configured with HA settings, spread-type scheduling predicates,

Reviewer: spread-type scheduling predicates - Is there a good link for this?

Author: Linked to the HA + refs section in the tutorial:
https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/tutorials/kubernetes/tutorial-eks-migrate-nodegroups/#kubernetes-workloads-high-availability-ha-rolling-updates

and can gracefully terminate within the Kubernetes [Pod lifecycle][pod-lifecycle].

<p align="center"><img src="target-ng-4xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

> ### Step 3: Decomission the `2xlarge` Node Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Decommission the `2xlarge` node group.

> Once migration of NGINX has completed onto the `4xlarge` node group, we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once NGINX has been completely migrated to the `4xlarge` node group, we can
```

> commence the decommissioning of the original `2xlarge` node group no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
begin decommissioning the original `2xlarge` node group which is no longer in use.
```

I would just end with that instead of adding "from Kubernetes and AWS"

longer in use from Kubernetes and AWS.

> Decommissioning the node group means that we'll:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decommissioning the node group involves:
```

>   * Drain the Kubernetes nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Draining the Kubernetes nodes.
```

Same for all the list items.

  * Delete the Kubernetes nodes from the APIServer.
  * Scale down the Auto Scaling Group to `0`.
  * Delete the node group.

> Setup `kubectl` by using the `kubeconfig` from the stack output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up `kubectl` by using the `kubeconfig` from the stack output.
```

```bash
$ pulumi stack output kubeconfig > kubeconfig.json
$ export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/kubeconfig.json
```

To drain the `2xlarge` node group, we'll use `kubectl drain`:

```bash
for node in $(kubectl get nodes -l beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type=t3.2xlarge -o=name); do
    kubectl drain --force --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data --grace-period=10 "$node";
done
```

> After draining has completed, to delete the nodes from the APIServer use `kubectl delete node`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After draining has completed, use `kubectl delete node` to delete the nodes from the APIServer.
```

```bash
for node in $(kubectl get nodes -l beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type=t3.2xlarge -o=name); do
    kubectl delete "$node";
done
```

Scale down the node group Auto Scaling Group completely by setting
the `desiredCapacity: 0` and running an update:

<p align="center"><img src="scale-down-ng-2xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

> Once the Auto Scaling Group has scaled down, we can delete the node group from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Auto Scaling group has scaled down, we can delete the node group from
```

AWS and the Pulumi program:

<p align="center"><img src="remove-ng-2xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

## Summary

> In this post we stood up an EKS cluster with a couple of node groups, and an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we stood up an EKS cluster with a couple of node groups, and an
```

`echoserver` and NGINX workload. We then created a new, updated node group and
migrated NGINX over to it.

> We acheived this node group migration with zero downtime to our apps during

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We achieved this node group migration with zero downtime to our apps during
```

load testing and decommissioning of the original node group.

<img style="max-width:none; height: 350px; width: 850px;" src="eks-migration.gif"/>

> **Note**: You can open the <a href="./eks-migration.gif" target="_blank">GIF</a> for a maximized view.

## Learn More

If you'd like to learn about Pulumi and how to manage your

> infrastructure and Kubernetes through code, [click here to get started today]({{< ref "/docs/quickstart" >}}). Pulumi is open source and free to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infrastructure and Kubernetes through code, [get started today]({{< ref "/docs/quickstart" >}}). Pulumi is open source and free to
```

use.

> For a follow-up example on how to further use Pulumi to create Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further examples on how to use Pulumi to create Kubernetes
```

---
title: "Day 2 Kubernetes: Migrating EKS Node Groups with Zero Downtime"
authors: ["mike-metral"]
tags: ["Kubernetes","EKS", "Migrations", "Node Groups"]
date: "2019-07-22"

meta_image: "eks-migrate-nodegroups.png"
---

Managed Kubernetes offerings greatly reduce the overhead required in
administering Kubernetes. However, the cluster is only one of the
components under management, as app lifecycles are self-driven tasks
that vary by workloads.

In Kubernetes, node groups are a useful mechanism for creating pools of resources that can enforce
scheduling requirements. They also provide a utility for shifting
workloads around during cluster management and updates.

In this post, we'll see how to use Pulumi for Day 2 Kubernetes administration.
We'll spin up a new EKS cluster with two node groups and a given workload.
Then we'll add one more node group with an updated configuration, and migrate the workload
over to it with zero downtime using code and `kubectl`.

<!--more-->

[View the full tutorial and code.][eks-nodegroup-tutorial]

> <p align="center"><img src="eks-migrate-nodegroups.svg" width="650"/></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](eks-migrate-nodegroups.svg)
```

## Create an EKS cluster and Deploy the Workload

For our initial update, we will configure and launch an EKS cluster using
`v1.13` of Kubernetes, with the cluster's infrastructure dependencies 

> (such as VPC and IAM) defined using [Crosswalk for AWS][crosswalk-aws]. We'll also

Author: Done

create and attach the following node groups to the cluster:

* A standard `t2.medium` worker node group using the recent `v1.13.7` worker [AMI][eks-amis], for general purpose workloads such as the [`EchoServer`][echoserver] &mdash; a simple app that echo's client request headers.
* A 2xlarge `t3.2xlarge` worker node group using an older `v1.12.7` worker [AMI][eks-amis], for use by larger, intensive workloads such as the [NGINX Ingress Controller][ingress-nginx].

With the cluster successfully created and the node groups available, Pulumi
will deploy the workload: the [`EchoServer`][echoserver], and the [NGINX Ingress Controller][ingress-nginx] that will manage its ingress.
The `echoserver` will land on the Standard node group, and NGINX is set
to specifically target the `2xlarge` node group.

Once the workload is deployed, we can validate it is up and running by accessing
the `echoserver` behind the NGINX endpoint using `curl`:

> <img style="max-width:none; height: 350px; width: 850px;" src="k8s-cluster-workload.gif"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](k8s-cluster-workload.gif)
```

> **Note**: You can open the <a href="./k8s-cluster-workload.gif" target="_blank">GIF</a> for a maximized view.

## The Great Migration

After our initial deployment, let's say we decide to update the node group used by NGINX.

To do so, we'll move NGINX from the `2xlarge` node group over to a new, `4xlarge` worker
node group with an updated AMI, a different instance type, and a different desired instance count.

As we migrate NGINX over to the `4xlarge` and decommission the `2xlarge` node
group in the next steps, we'll also actively load test the endpoint of the
`echoserver` to ensure that we are not losing requests throughout the migration.

### Step 1: Create the new `4xlarge` node group.

Create the new, `4xlarge` node group by defining it and running an update.

> <p align="center"><img src="ng-4xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](ng-4xlarge.svg)
```

### Step 2: Migrate NGINX to the `4xlarge` node group.

With the `4xlarge` node group created, we'll migrate the NGINX service away
from the `2xlarge` node group over to the `4xlarge` node group by changing
its node selector scheduling terms.

This change updates the NGINX Deployment spec to require the use of
`c5.4xlarge` nodes during scheduling, and forces a rolling update over to the
`4xlarge` node group.

NGINX is able to successfully migrate across node groups because it is
configured with HA settings, [spread-type scheduling predicates][tutorial-ha-refs],
and can gracefully terminate within the Kubernetes [Pod lifecycle][pod-lifecycle].

> <p align="center"><img src="target-ng-4xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](target-ng-4xlarge.svg)
```

### Step 3: Decommission the `2xlarge` node group.

Once NGINX has been completely migrated to the `4xlarge` node group, we can
begin decommissioning the original `2xlarge` node group which is no longer in use.

> longer in use from Kubernetes and AWS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Decommissioning the node group involves:

  * Draining the Kubernetes nodes.
  * Delete the Kubernetes nodes from the APIServer.
  * Scale down the Auto Scaling Group to `0`.
  * Delete the node group.

Set up `kubectl` by using the `kubeconfig` from the stack output.

```bash
$ pulumi stack output kubeconfig > kubeconfig.json
$ export KUBECONFIG=$PWD/kubeconfig.json
```

To drain the `2xlarge` node group, we'll use `kubectl drain`:

```bash
for node in $(kubectl get nodes -l beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type=t3.2xlarge -o=name); do
    kubectl drain --force --ignore-daemonsets --delete-local-data --grace-period=10 "$node";
done
```

After draining has completed, use `kubectl delete node` to delete the nodes from the APIServer.

```bash
for node in $(kubectl get nodes -l beta.kubernetes.io/instance-type=t3.2xlarge -o=name); do
    kubectl delete "$node";
done
```

Scale down the node group Auto Scaling Group completely by setting
the `desiredCapacity: 0` and running an update:

> <p align="center"><img src="scale-down-ng-2xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](scale-down-ng-2xlarge.svg)
```

Once the Auto Scaling Group has scaled down, we can delete the node group from
AWS and the Pulumi program:

> <p align="center"><img src="remove-ng-2xlarge.svg" width="650"/></p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](remove-ng-2xlarge.svg)
```

## Summary

In this post, we stood up an EKS cluster with a couple of node groups, and an
`echoserver` and NGINX workload. We then created a new, updated node group and
migrated NGINX over to it.

We achieved this node group migration with zero downtime to our apps during
load testing and decommissioning of the original node group.

> <img style="max-width:none; height: 350px; width: 850px;" src="eks-migration.gif"/>

Reviewer 2: These can just be regular images, as they'll be sized to scale within the container. (We generally shouldn't need to specify explicit sizes on images, but where we do, we have some CSS utility classes for that &mdash; hit me up and I can point you to some examples.)

```suggestion
![](eks-migration.gif)
```

---
title: "Day 2 Kubernetes - Migrating EKS Node Groups with Zero Downtime"
authors: ["mike-metral"]
tags: ["Kubernetes","EKS", "Migrations", "Node Groups"]
date: "2019-07-22"

meta_image: "eks-migrate-nodegroups.png"

> meta_description: "Using Pulumi, we'll walk through Day 2 Kubernetes cluster administration by migrating a workload across EKS node groups with zero downtime." 

Reviewer 2: This field is actually optional (and unused in the new blog), but if you do want to specify an explicit `<meta name="description" content="[...]">`, the property should be named `meta_desc`, not `meta_description`. When omitted, we just use the `.Summary` property supplied by Hugo (which is derived from the `<!--more-->` comment you've provided in your post). In general, if you've written an intro paragraph suitable for a home-page and/or social-media preview, you needn't specify anything for this.

Author: Thanks for the tip! I've removed `meta_description` in favor of the `.Summary` which is better detailed.

---
title: "Day 2 Kubernetes: Migrating EKS Node Groups with Zero Downtime"
authors: ["mike-metral"]

> tags: ["Kubernetes","EKS", "Migrations", "Node Groups"]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
tags: ["Kubernetes","EKS"]
```

> date: "2019-07-22"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
date: "2019-07-23"
```

Author: Oops, forgot to save. Done and changes pushed.
